---
source: youtube
channel: Pickleball Playbook
video_id: UjdZwT8u4xY
title: These Drills Fix 95% of Errors in Pickleball
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UjdZwT8u4xY
upload_date: 2026-05-18
duration: 00:14:32
fetched_date: 2026-05-23
---

# These Drills Fix 95% of Errors in Pickleball

**Channel:** Pickleball Playbook
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UjdZwT8u4xY
**Duration:** 00:14:32
**Uploaded:** 2026-05-18

## Description

If you want to get better at pickleball, consistency is everything. These 4 drills build it the smart way - fresh legs, focused reps, real results. Add them to your routine today.

## Chapters

- 00:00 Intro
- 01:04 Drill 1 - Drop Consistency
- 03:53 Great tip to increase consistency
- 05:05 Drill 2 - Reset Consistency
- 06:58 Drill 3 - Volley Consistency
- 08:29 Follow this order if you want to improve fast
- 09:18 Drill 4 - Dink Consistency
- 13:18 Final Thoughts and Recommendations

## Transcript

So, this first point that you're watching, what you're going to see happen is an Ernie. It's a really flashy shot. You're probably going to get high fives from the crowd after you do this. It's going to look super cool. You're going to feel good about yourself. And it might even be a hit on Instagram. The only problem is it's not consistent. Now, I'm not saying that you shouldn't ever Ernie, but so many amateur players spend so much time on these flashy shots. When in reality, all that they need to spend time on is consistency. If you're the most consistent player out on the court, no one can beat you. Now, the second point is a really good example of being that consistent player. As you can see, there's nothing flashy throughout this point. All that it comes down to is the team that wins the championship is the team that is hitting every single dink, every single drop, and every single reset consistently in the court. This is the main game changer from any previous level to the next level. Whether you're a 3.5 trying to get to 4.0, or you're a 5.0 trying to get to the pro level, all that it's going to come down to is consistency. You might have flashier shots than the pros. You might have flashier shots than the 4.0s. But, are you as consistent? As soon as you can fix that consistency in the way that you see the court, that's when you're going to start winning championships. Let's open the playbook. Now, the things that I teach you in this video, you can learn, but that's only half the battle. The other half of the battle is actually getting out and getting reps in. So, throughout this video, we're going to be showing you not only how to become a more consistent player, but also the exact drills that you need to do to increase your consistency. And the Pickleball Drills app is exactly where top pros teach you how to train each one of these shots that we're going to be talking about. If you want to actually get to that next level with a specific plan and trainings, go to pickleballdrillsapp.com So, this first drill that we're going to be doing is going to help you to improve the consistency of your drops. The way that it works is we're playing a game to 11. The player back here is hitting drops. As soon as they miss, they then go up to the kitchen line. The other player goes back to the baseline. First player to get to 11 wins, and you can only score if you're the player back here hitting drops. So, just to show you guys a few, for this example, we're going odd to odd side, but you want to be doing this in each of the four positions. Down this line, down this line, and then also cross court over here. And that's the same with every single drill that you do. You want to get really good and comfortable in every position on the court. So, Kieran's back hitting drops, and my goal is to put him away, right? So, I'm I obviously can't hit a drop shot, but I can do everything else. My focus is to not only be consistent, but to try to get the ball nice and deep, and make him as uncomfortable as possible. He's hitting some fantastic Looking to reach in, take time away. So, I want to change some spin, but I'm still staying consistent, right? But this guy can't miss. So, since that's the wrong side, he would now come up, and Kieran and I go back. So, I'm down 0-1. I can only score back here in this position. So, I feed it in. Now, I want you guys to notice, my drops might start high, and then I'm going to bring them down from there. But what's most important here is consistency. I'm keeping it above the net. Obviously, if I aim super low, yes, it's going to be difficult for him, but I don't want to do that right away, because that's going to decrease my overall consistency. So, you start high, and then you just bring that slowly down to a nice comfortable position a couple of feet above the net. So, one of the things that's really helped me determine how far I'm hitting the ball is ground push. I like to A lot of people call it ground force. I like to do a push-up analogy. So, if I go to the wall here, and I set up for a a regular push-up against the wall, I'm pushing with my hands away from the wall. Think of the same thing with your feet. If you're lowering to say sit in a chair, you're lowering, and then I'm pushing my feet into the floor. Now, the rate that I push my feet, because I've got very loose arms and I'm relaxed, that's the rate of distance. So, if I was coming up to hit a a dink, for instance, I'm going to hit with a very slow ground push, which is then going to move my arm slowly, therefore the ball travels less distance. Now, if I'm dinking from back here, then I'm going to give a little bit more push, a little bit of a faster rate. And if I'm all the way back here hitting a drop, then I'm going to push even faster. And let's say for fun, say I'm going to do a drive, I'm going to push really fast with my ground push, and then that's going to give me maximal speed with my arm. So, that's a nice way to determine distance, and that really will help you with control. So, drill number two is to practice our resets. A lot of players get into this middle area, and they try to get out of it as quickly as possible, because they're not comfortable. And so, this drill is going to help you to get really comfortable in the midcourt, because you can't get out of it. It works the same as the previous drill. We're playing two 11. If you win the point, you stay at midcourt. If you lose the point, you come up to the kitchen line. The other player goes to midcourt. And really, it's just all about getting as many reps in as possible. The more reps you can get in with consistency, the better I'm relaxed. I'm keeping things very simple with my swing, and that's really the name of the game. As soon as you start gripping, as soon as you start tightening up, then those resets don't go where I want them to. So, I just relax my grip. You have to believe in them because then if you put something up a bit higher like that, you can still keep maneuvering in without freaking out. So, the best way to get comfortable here in the mid court is to spend time here. And people just don't spend enough time chilling here. They'll play all kinds of games like skinny singles, and they'll be constantly moving forward into the court. Which that's good practice, but you should leave that to the end of your drilling sessions where you're doing live play like that. And just focus on getting in as many reps as possible. If you get in more reps than your competition, you're going to be more consistent than your competition. So, I love what Kieran said, we're staying relaxed. We're getting some margin over the net, and then I'm slowly bringing those resets down, okay? That's just ultimately going to help with that consistency, and make that transition so much easier. The straighter a line I can draw with my resets, the harder a time my opponent's All right, drill number three is going to help us practice our volleys. We both start at mid court, and we're going to be staying there throughout the duration of this drill, and we're hitting volleys back and forth, and the goal is to get to 50 in a row as a team. If at any time you miss, you go back to zero. If that sounds too challenging, you can always do 10 in a row, 15 in a row, 25 in a row, whatever makes sense for you. But our goal is 50. This is going to help us to be able to get the full range of motion through our volleys, and really increase our consistency. One, two, three. Okay, we lost the first round. We go directly back to zero from three. Zero, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 37. So, now we're back to zero. Now we're back to zero. So, then we go for 50 in the next one. As you can see, 50 is going to make us stretch, but it's not unattainable. So, you want to set a goal that makes you stretch, but isn't absolutely insane. You also don't want to set a goal that's super easy. Yeah, so the closer you get to it, the more that pressure builds, and that's similar to the pressure that you feel when you play in a match. That's the point behind every single one of these drills. Increase our consistency and increase our pressure. A quick side note before we go into the next drill. I want to talk about the order of things because the game has gone in a power direction. So, a lot of players have thought about, "Okay, I need a power paddle now. I need to hit the ball harder." I hear that a lot. So, I want to just put things in perspective a little bit of how I like to learn things. I think control is the most important thing. So, firstly, you need to control the ball. Second is consistency. So, how can you control consistently? Third is location. So, being able to hit at the right depth. So, your drops are landing in the kitchen. So, your rolls are landing near the baseline. So, that's more the depth part, and then the fourth one would be power. That comes last. So, the power comes out of all of those other three. You don't want to bring power to the front because it's going to mess up that sequence. This is drill number four. This one's going to help you with the consistency of your dinks. We've now worked on our drops, our resets, our volleys, and now we're heading into consistency of our dinks. You can literally do any of these drills or any modification of these drills with any shot that you want to work on. Whether that's serves, returns, drives, speed ups, overheads, it can be anything, but we're showing you these specific four. There are hundreds of drills just like this at pickleballdrillsapp.com if you want to check it out. The way this drill works, as you can see, we have cones lined up. Our goal is to keep our dinks shallow. So, we want to keep them in the first 3/4 of the kitchen here, closest to the net. If they go outside, you automatically lose the point. Now, the catch is I can take dinks out of the air and automatically score point every single time that I do so. So, if I take a dink out of the air, I get one point even though the point isn't over. So, you can let it bounce out, which you'll get a point, but maybe you'll get more if you reach in and take the ball out of the air, which is practicing more offense. Okay, 0-0 here. So, we're trying to keep these dinks nice and shallow. And it's crazy when you have these lines in here, how much easier it makes it for you to keep it inside of them. But, I'm still leaning in and I'm focused on trying to get that ball out There you go. There's one that's out. So, he he could have taken that out of the air, but instead, I go down, he goes up one point. So, he's at one, which if he took it out of the air, he would be at one plus we'd still be going. So, 0-1 here and we're focusing on keeping a really light grip pressure. People are way too firm on their dinks. And we're all focused on consistency, moving the ball around, trying to create pressure so that our opponent pops that ball up. Which it doesn't look like Kevin wants to do today. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; But notice this, we're just trying to get more and more consistent with every single dink that we hit. If you can be the most consistent player on the court, you're going to be the best player on the court. You're going to win way more than your opponents. It's not saying that we're being passive, either. We're trying to take these dinks out of the air. Just neither of us have had that opportunity yet. There we go, I went past again. So, he's up 2-0. We're going all the way to 11. You want to try to do this in every single one of the four positions, so that you can get really versed in and really good in each of these positions. Now, just to show you guys one more, we're going to go cross here. And also, the higher you dink the ball, the more it's going to pop up. So, we still need to keep it low over the net, but not so low that it's going into the net, right? So, aim for higher margin. What you'll find is, if you pick a spot above the net to hit to every single time, say I hit here, 4 or 5 inches above the net every single time, it lands consistently in that first 3/4 of the kitchen. If I start going a foot, it's going to land past that, and they're going to be able to reach in. So, we're just picking a spot time. So, he hits a pass, I would be at 1-0. Really fun game, it'll improve your dinks tenfold. All about consistency. If you can out place and out consistent your opponent, they're going to pop the ball up at some point, and you're going to be there ready to So, that's everything for this video. We really hope that you guys enjoyed that. Something to mention is, throughout none of these drills did we say or neglect putting the ball away, attacking, anything like that. We're still focused on attacking, but it's a much smarter position of play. So, instead of just merely dinking and allowing the ball to bounce, we're trying to reach in and create more havoc on our opponents. We're not doing that by speeding it up their bodies, we're doing that by being the more consistent player. When you do this, you're automatically going to get to that next level. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's really just about priorities. It sometimes pains us a little bit to take a step back and work on drops, work on dinks, that type of things. It's fun to hit the ball hard, but if you actually want to be a better player and you want to move up in a sustainable way, you have to work on the control, consistency, and depth type or location type elements first and then put power in as your last priority and then it will come naturally. So, now that you know these drills and you've seen this video, you can check out this video right here. In it, we talk about the specific steps that you need to take to get prepped and warmed up for a very effective drilling session. That way, when you go into the next tournament that you play in, you are ready to go. You're going to absolutely love it.
