---
source: youtube
channel: Briones Pickleball
video_id: 88LjSQfXW3A
title: My 9-Year-Old Plays at a 4.0 Level Here's How
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=88LjSQfXW3A
upload_date: 2026-05-21
duration: 00:17:30
fetched_date: 2026-05-23
---

# My 9-Year-Old Plays at a 4.0 Level Here's How

**Channel:** Briones Pickleball
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=88LjSQfXW3A
**Duration:** 00:17:30
**Uploaded:** 2026-05-21

## Description

3 Keys to Reach 4.0 Pickleball (Training My 9-Year-Old Son Josiah)

## Chapters

- 00:00 Intro and Goals
- 00:25 Counterattack Basics
- 00:51 Three Ball Counter Drill
- 03:34 Dink Rally Speedups
- 05:06 Consistent Dinks Focus
- 05:34 Forehand Topspin and Lift
- 08:20 Backhand Dinks Two Hander
- 10:45 Transition Game Drives Drops
- 12:11 Drive Drop Strategy
- 13:07 Topspin Drops and Resets
- 15:01 Full Point Examples

## Transcript

Hey, really quick before we jump into the video, if you've been playing pickleball for a while now and maybe you feel stuck like you're not getting any better no matter how much you play on the court, I wanted to personally invite you to one of our VIP intensive trainings. We actually have two, three, and five-day training options directly coached by me with small group ratios and personalized coaching. Click in the link in the description below or scan the QR code with your phone. Hope to see you on the court soon. Now, let's get to the video. All right, everyone, your coach Jordan Briones here. Today I have my son Josiah. He's 9 years old and he started pickleball around 2 years ago. Click up here if you'd like to see the video of me giving him a beginner lesson, but in today's video we're going to go over the three key main areas that I've worked with him to help him play at a 4.0 level. So, if you are aspiring to get to a 4.0 level today, make sure you focus on these three things. All right, so the first thing that's really helped Josiah get to that 4.0 level is really honing in and dialing in his counter attacks. Um Josiah, when you first started, you struggled with this, but uh why is it important to learn how to counter? It's important to learn how to counter because you have to like Yeah, you have to counter a lot of people like grown-ups and adults like to speed up. &gt;&gt; Yeah, there you go. Yeah, so being able to counter is really important. So, I'm going to feed Josiah some balls and then we're going to talk about what he's really worked on over this past three or six months or so. All right, Jo. Here we go. I'm actually I'm I'm actually not going to tell you where I'm going to feed it, okay? So, I might feed it to his dominant side body or non-dominant. Let's see how he does. Okay, three balls each. Here we go. Nice. Oh, shoot. &gt;&gt; Good. Good. Okay. So, this is called a three-ball drill and we've been working on this. In these three balls, I'll go outside on his dominant side. One of the balls, I'll go on his non-dominant and I'll go body, but I don't tell him which one I'm going for first. This is a great drill we've been working on and uh Josiah, come in. Yeah. Do you remember what Dad taught you? Um you know how you used to kind of get chicken wing a lot. What did Dad teach you is the most important thing to avoid that? Uh to be ready and neutral. &gt;&gt; Yeah, neutral. So, what does that mean? It means like paddle position like this. Like sometimes I would sit on my backhand. &gt;&gt; Uh-huh. But then he would chicken wing me. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; So, he taught me to hold it like this. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, it's really important uh as you're especially as you're rising up into higher levels of play, you don't know where your opponent is going to attack. That's why this three-ball drill is really good. We're going to do a couple more. I'm going to feed it a little bit harder now. Here we go. Here we go. Okay. Here we go again. Oh. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Oh, shoot. Body back. All right. Last three. Good. All right, last three. Sorry, I got out of rhythm there. Yeah, I'll go body first here. Good. Okay, dominant. And then non. Okay. All right, one of the things that we've also been working on is this two-handed backhand. You can see how he uses the two-hander on the non-dominant side. Josiah, why do you like using the two-hander on that side. &gt;&gt; well, I give my power. So, yeah, that's pretty much it. &gt;&gt; Okay. It's hard to hit a one-hander cuz I'm not that strong yet, so yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. All right. So, that's the counters that we've been working on, and now we're actually going to play a dink rally to make it more realistic, and then I'm going to speed up, and then you're going to play it out. Okay. Oh, I got to find a good uh place to speed up. He's hitting He's hitting Good. Nice. All right. Let's do two more. Good aggressive dink there. Good aggressive dink there. One of the things, too, Josiah's been working on, and we're going to talk about this next, but he's dinking really aggressively. When he hits me those topspin dinks, it's really hard for me to speed up, and he knows that. That's why he's trying to hit as aggressive as he can, okay? So, Make sure you reload, okay? Here we go. Good. Nice ball. Good. Nice. Oh, shoot. Good. Good. Good. Okay. So, counter-attacking, obviously, a really important part of this game, and he's really improved over the last 3 or 6 months. Now, the next thing I want to show you that he's been working on a lot is his consistent dinks. All right. The second thing that Josiah's really been working on to really get to playing at that 4.0 level is being really consistent with his dinks. Okay, one of the things that you're going to see him do really well is thinking aggressively with topspin and then I'm going to kind of show you another option besides topspin that he's been working on. All right, Joe. So these are cross court. Let's just see your No, no, we're going to go topspin first. Aggressive dinks first. Here we go. Nice rolls. Good ball. Good. Okay, so that is on the right side. He is working on his topspin forehand dinks and it's something that he's become really aggressive with. Josiah, what's really important with that one or what do you think about when you're trying to dink aggressively? Anything? I think about trying to not let them have ATVs. Okay, so you don't you don't hit it too wide. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And you and you're trying to move me out a little bit, yeah? Okay. So one of the things that actually we've been working on recently is sometimes when I'm hitting really aggressive dinks at him it's sometimes hard to hit topspin. All right, so let's just show you let's just show the viewers what kind of you've been working on now. So if I dink aggressive to him Okay. So he's also been working on a very consistent like shovel or lifting and this is really important because you're not going to be in a great position to hit topspin every time. You could find a lot of success of being really consistent because you're just using your shoulder. Joe, let's just practice a couple of lift things and I'll try to be aggressive and then you just So Josiah, why do you why do you like this thing? Um why do you think it's like consistent? Well, it's consistent because um I move my feet less. Okay. Okay, so you can reach further out? &gt;&gt; can reach further out and I don't move my feet as much. So it's easier. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So for those top spin dinks, like you saw in the beginning and we can play that really quick, you'll see him utilizing that shuffle step. If you're trying to be really aggressive, you got to be aggressive with your feet. So if you're struggling with your footwork still today, check out fixmyfootwork.com. It's a great resource that we have for you. But that shovel dink or the lift thing, just like Josiah said, you can actually have a pretty clean balanced contact outside of your strike zone and you can be very consistent. So it's a shot that he's been working on. Now let's get to the backhand side. To hit consistent dinks at a 4.0 plus level, you not only need to be able to hit it on the forehand, but also on the backhand, especially if you're playing on the left side. So I think one of Josiah's best shots, um it just kind of come came more naturally for him is a two-handed backhand dink. And this two-handed top spin dink, Josiah, why is this one of your favorite shots or what does it set up for you? It sets up for like a counter or a put away. Okay. Yeah, mainly a put away. &gt;&gt; Yeah, when you pull them out, it kind of sets you up balls in the middle, right? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. All right, so we're going to kind of just show a couple of top spin dinks that he he's been working on and then we'll get to kind of the slicer Good balls. You can see has great margin over the net. And it's dipping down right on my feet, forcing me to half volley. Like that right there. Those are great balls. Good, Joe. Okay, one more. Okay, one thing that you'll notice there is he gets set up the same way every time. He's nice and low. He's He's on the shorter side already, so that helps him out, but this dink really puts a lot of pressure on my backhand, and it sets up balls in the middle where he can be really aggressive, okay? Now, what we just talked about on the forehand side, sometimes if I'm hitting more aggressive to him or if the ball's really low, we talked about to be really consistent, it's good to develop more of a slice and lift. And this is actually something I'm still working on. So, Joe, let's look at that. Okay? So, if I'm rolling more out to him, I'm trying to put some aggression This lift or slice motion here on his backhand is a really consistent shot, just like that forehand side. So, these dinks all together, it's the most important thing to understand it's consistency at the end of the day. You want to get your dinks as unattackable as possible, and you want to try to really move your opponent and stay in control. All right, we talked about counter attacking, one of the most important parts of the game that my son Joe has been working on, consistent dinks up at the non-volley zone. And the third thing that he's really had to improve to get to this 4.0 level is his transition game. And transition game involves two important shots, right? It involves drives and drops from the baseline, but also the third shot is is the reset shot in transition. So, the first thing that we're going to show him working on is a drive drop. Now, for this, we're actually setting up the next shot. So, on his drive, you're going to see him drive, stabilize, hit his fifth, and then come in, and this is a a big play that we've been working on with him. All right, Joe. Good. Okay. All right, good job, Joe. All right, so we saw some pretty good drive drops there. Josiah, why is it um or what do you like about the drive drop? Uh I like I like driving I like driving and then dropping because when you drive it, puts a lot of pressure on them, so they hit it shorter, so it's easier to drop and come in. Good. Good. Good. Good. Okay, so that's really good, yeah. So, for the drive drop, we're just really setting up the next ball. And what is really important What is the most important thing about the drive, Josiah, that we talked about? &gt;&gt; Uh to keep it not high, but not low, like a foot from the net. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah, we want to keep it low, and most importantly, are are we hitting it at 100% or no? No, like 65%. 65. &gt;&gt; Okay. Yeah, so we want a really consistent ball low below the net. You'll see some of those balls were, you know, fairly low and it forces me to kind of hit that volley so that he hits that easy fit shot drop. Now, we're going to go over the second way that he likes to transition and he likes to do it by hitting his top spin drops, putting a little bit more aggression on Again. It's a good ball. Nice. Nice. All right. So, for this top spin drop, it's a little bit more aggressive. I think it's better utilized when you have more of a weaker return that kind of sits up. Josiah, why do you like to kind of use your your drops? Because now that you're playing kind of at that 4.0 plus level, you said with some players, their counters are really good. So, why do you like to use your drop? Well, sometimes their their return is really deep and I don't have time to set up to drive. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, that's why I use a drop. Uh-huh. And another reason is because when I drive, yeah, they're some of sometimes their counters are really good, so they just counter it. So, I'll So, I'll just drop it and come in. Okay. All right. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Cool. Yeah, so again, for this transition, the drops and drives are really important. Obviously, you saw him hit a couple of resets in transition. These are all things that we've been working on for him to get to this next level. To end this video, to put it all together, we talked about to get to that 4.0 level and beyond, we got to have those consistent counters. We got to have very consistent dinks, and also a very solid transition game as we just showed you. So, to end it, Josiah, we're going to play some full points here, and he's going to kind of show you all those &gt;&gt; [screaming] Oh. Good one. &gt;&gt; One by one. One by one.
