---
source: youtube
channel: Richard Pickleball
video_id: fYD0ta7xn9Y
title: Master the Forehand Counter in Pickleball: The #1 Skill for good Hands
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fYD0ta7xn9Y
upload_date: 2026-05-23
duration: 00:10:39
fetched_date: 2026-05-23
aliases:
  - "Forehand Counter Skill Hands"
tags:
  - source
  - richard-pickleball
  - forehand

youtube_tags: []
---

# Master the Forehand Counter in Pickleball: The #1 Skill for good Hands

**Channel:** Richard Pickleball
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fYD0ta7xn9Y
**Duration:** 00:10:39
**Uploaded:** 2026-05-23

## Description

Most players struggle with the forehand counter because they swing too big, panic, or don't understand how to absorb and redirect pace. In today's faster game, mastering the forehand counter is one of the biggest keys to winning firefights.

## Chapters

- 00:00 Introduction
- 01:07 The big issue on the forehand counter
- 02:39 Counter examples
- 05:41 Expert tip
- 07:38 Live examples
- 08:46 Richie recap

## Transcript

Welcome back everyone. So, we're going to take a quick pause on the offball series. I'm actually filming that one right now. Just for the next two videos, we're going to jump into a couple things that I really wanted to talk about. So, the first one, I've gotten so many questions about the forehand counter. So, if you're someone that plays in continental, the forehand counter can be really tough. And there's a few reasons for that. And there's a technical change that I'm going to talk about today that I think will make a huge difference on your forehand counter. So, we're going First, I want to just say I appreciate the support more than you guys know. If you haven't, please subscribe to the channel. It's free. You can get updates on the videos and it's the best way to support me. So, thank you so much for the support. Please subscribe if you haven't. And now we'll jump right into it. So, the forehand counter, the first thing I'm going to go over is the big issue. So, if you're someone that's an eastern, right, or even further, hitting that forehand is going to be easy. The reason for this is as I go like this, my paddle, you can see, is tilted. This just allows me to swing through and the ball is going to go forward and down with control. Honestly, even if I want to use my wrist, I could snap and it'll still work. So, people in these grips love that forehand counter. But if you like me, like I think players should be moving to are using continental at net, that's not the case. When I go here, my paddle face is like this. So what happens a lot is players go like that and they lose control and we miss the ball. So what we want to do is model our forehand off of more of a pingpong forehand. Now, I've drawn this from a lot of players, especially Ben John's does this really well, but in pingpong, right, you use your arm and your shoulder to go here, and then you go like this. Now, this is totally doable in pickle ball. So, for me, I'm going to take my paddle back like this, and then I'm going to go here, just like that, and ping pong. This is going to allow me to get the tip of the paddle down, swing up on the ball, and this works on balls that are high, balls that are middle, or balls that are low. The one last thing, if you want to get really advanced with it, is we want to turn our wrist just slightly. So, not as we hit, pre- hit. So, as soon as I take my paddle back, I don't take it back with an open palm. I take it back with a slightly closed palm. So, as I go, I go boom, right here. Now, this is the spot I want to be. So, I'm going to show you both ways. First, what I see a lot of, and this is slappy wristbased um play. So, it'll look a lot like this. If you're someone that's hitting the ball like this, your wrist is going to open, the ball's going to go flying, and that's what I think so many players are stuck with. Honestly, that's where I was for a long time. Now, you can get better at that. Zach honestly does it um pretty well sometimes. A lot of players do it where like you could time it up really well and be like this. But again, very hard to do because you're timing up this wrist slap with a continental grip. Now, instead, what I do and what I like is going to be a unit turn. So, as that ball comes, I'm going to go here, here, here, here. So, this is more what that Well, not that last one. So, I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here now. We'll go full speed so you can see. So even if Zach's going fast, I it's very easy for me to time up because I'm not snapping that wrist. Boom. Boom. So you could see how as the ball comes, my shoulders turn a little, my arm comes back, but it's all loaded here, right? And then it's just accelerate through the ball. When you do this, right, it also feels very stiff. So, it's not like with the wrist to me always feels very loose. It feels like you're almost like getting lucky when I hit it. Well, this I always feel like I can hit well. Now, the other thing I love about this is I can do it from here. So, another problem with the wrist counter is as we move back, it becomes way more sporadic. Zach and I drill this all the time where I'm I'm going to give him a dead ball. He's going to get a ball down and I'm actually still able to counter because again, I'm here. Accelerate through. When I keep it simple with my arm, I'm even able to do this on low balls. So, if you see the pros and you're like, "How are they doing that?" This is how they're doing it. So, even if like Zach's taking a dead ball, I can still swing, get it over, put it away, whatever it is. So, this is a great And here you go. Bonus drill for you guys. If you want to work on this, this is a great drill. And then Zach works on his counters. So you can see how I'm able to kind of keep it compact, stay through the ball, attack these balls. Well, all of that comes from the setup. Now, just to reiterate, because you've seen it now multiple times in this video, when I take my paddle back, my wrist is preset. So, I am setting my wrist, but the second I move, I'm setting it. So, it's already set here. It's not like I take it back like this and then I set it as I hit. It's set, move. It's like a set piece. I don't move and set at the same time. first set, move, hit. Right? That has to be the order. That's what allows me to stay so compact, so consistent, and The last tip, and this one is a little bit more advanced. So, the stuff I just talked about covers pretty much the whole shot. This isn't completely necessary, but if you're somebody that is doing that well and you want to really up it, whether it's the spin, the power, whatever, here's going to be the key. So, what I just showed you guys is a set piece counter. What I mean by that is you can see how my wrist is here and I just go like this, which is great. But if we instead of setting our wrist straight up, actually set it with a slightly more closed face. And I know I mentioned it before, but now I'm showing it like this. So instead of my paddle starting here where again it is in that right spot, I actually almost So it's almost like pointing my finger down and out. Like if you were to point at somebody, see how my wrist drops? That's more of the set. Now what that's going to do is it's actually going to close the face and provide slightly more whip through. You can see how the paddle head actually drops a little bit. This to me is the ultimate form. Now, the reason for this is I think I don't know this for sure, but I think it allows us to deal with different heights better. When I'm up, if the ball's low, I really have to drop to get below it. But by dropping the paddle head a little bit, I'm able to hit these balls like this, these balls like this, and these balls like this. So, the tip pretty much matches the height of the ball, right? Which isn't the case the other way. Like this. If my paddle's up, the tip's always up, right? But now, if the ball's high, the tip's high. Ball's mid, the tip's mid. balls low, the tip's low, and this allows me to really kind of generate that same swing path, whatever the height of the ball is. So, I think that's a huge advantage. It's helped my game a lot. That's what I can speak from my own experience. Will it help you? I'm not 100% sure, but I think it will. So, mess around with it, play around. Again, for me, I think of it as like take your paddle, point your finger, turn it, right? So, that's kind of the motion. It doesn't have to be so extreme. It's not like this. You're not like like like obviously, but a little just even a teeny bit. Right? If you're here, even just that like a teeny bit, I think really allows you to kind of snap through. So, I'll show you kind of what I mean about those different heights right now. So, right now, I'm just going to kind of show you guys. I'm going to take a step back so Zach can easily vary the height. But, Zach's going to hit a couple at each height. And I want you to just pay attention to the tip of the paddle, right? Just watch how it's like here, it's here, it's here, rather than everything being like kind of this So now that height's more middle, so my tip's sideways and I missed, but still tip middle. And now even if Zach goes low, tip drops, I'm able to control it, really swing through the ball, create power and spin and almost like So on the low ball, it's almost like I'm attacking, which I definitely would not be able to do with my wrist set the other way. So Richie recap, we really fixed the forehand counter today. So I think if you have an amazing forehand counter, whether it's grip based or just playbased, that's fine. But I think this shop for players in continental is so challenging for me. It took literally years because I never had anything like this. I kind of had to problem solve it on my own, which was very hard. Um, so I'm kind of helping you guys skip that step. If you're struggling, it is probably because of your wrist engagement. Very hard in continental on the forehand to time it up right, be consistent, and be able to use it from different spots on the court. Let's even say you master what we were talking about from the left. If you're not doing this now on the right, you can't even be a little late. Right? On the left, I could be a teeny bit late and the ball might go this way with my wrist. But on the right, I can't even do that. The ball's going to go wide. This allows you to have the control that you need. So again, to recap, we are going to get that paddle set. We are going to turn a little with our shoulders, bring our arm here, and then accelerate with our arm. It is an arm motion with a locked wrist. That is much more pingpongesque. Again, if you've played ping pong, you understand that shoulder motion is what allows us to have control. Now, to to help with those different heights, I like that pointer motion where we close the face a little more on the high balls here, on the middle balls here, on the low balls here. But again, that locked control preset wrist is what allows me to be so good at all of those different balls, right? So, if you're somebody that needs to get better at the forehand, this is the video for you. Pay attention, go drill it, and let me know in the comment section what questions, concerns you
