---
source: youtube
channel: Richard Pickleball
video_id: aR_EMjjSo4E
title: The OFF BALL Secret to Winning Firefights in Pickleball
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aR_EMjjSo4E
upload_date: 2026-05-15
duration: 00:09:07
fetched_date: 2026-05-23
aliases:
  - "Off Firefights"
tags:
  - source
  - richard-pickleball

youtube_tags: []
---

# The OFF BALL Secret to Winning Firefights in Pickleball

**Channel:** Richard Pickleball
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aR_EMjjSo4E
**Duration:** 00:09:07
**Uploaded:** 2026-05-15

## Description

Most players lose firefights before the ball even comes to them - because they are not ready as the off ball player. In today's fast paced pickleball, your positioning, paddle readiness, and anticipation away from the ball are what separate good players from elite players.

## Chapters

- 00:00 Introduction
- 00:32 What to do when off ball
- 02:19 Examples with the firefight being forward
- 04:08 The second kind of firefight
- 06:11 Cross court examples
- 08:03 Firefight demonstrations

## Transcript

Welcome back everybody. In part three of our offball player series, we are going to be talking about what you do when your opponent and your partner are in a firefight. So, this happens when your opponent and partner are speeding up at each other. It kind of ends up a lot of times kind of an awkward position, right? Do I just stand there like this? What do I do? So, we're going to break So, what am I doing while my partner is in a firefight? So, there's two different scenarios, right? The first one, and the most likely is your partner and the opponent in front of him are in a firefight. Now, when this happens, there's a few things that we want to focus on. One of the big ones is going to be our paddle position. This is actually going to be the most important thing. So, the two things that I see players do that are a huge mistake are one, this is the number one, they're hitting the ball back and forth and we go like this. Now, the problem with this is one, if it does go to our forehand, I have to move anyway. We're not in an athletic position. If I'm going to be sitting forehand, it should be like this where I'm ready to attack that ball. This is a lazy position. This happens a lot. When I watched myself on film from a while ago, honestly, even pretty recently, I noticed my paddle after one or two shots would kind of go like this. I can't counter. I can't reset. I'm useless over here. Right? So, the other thing that people do wrong is they sit like this with paddle here. Right? The ball is not going to go from that corner all the way over here. If we're going to sit backhand again, we'd want to turn, be engaged, whatever. So, what I focus on is the tip of my paddle pointing to my opponent. Now, normally when we track the ball, we keep it on ball kind of, but in a firefight, there's really no ability to do that. So, in general, if I can just get my paddle pointed here, this allows me to one, slide backhand or two, slide forehand, it gives me a lot of variability. Now, if you're somebody that has maybe a different grip or you like sitting backhand or forehand more, that's okay. But still, I would suggest turning your body a little bit. So, backhand would look like this. Or forehand, more likely from this side would be like here. So, if you were sitting here, I could cover all of these balls and even some of these. So, it's really getting an athletic stance. But if you're taking my advice, it's going to be pointing that paddle to that person. So when the ball does redirect, whether it's middle or body, we're ready to counter that ball. So whether Card is speeding up at Zack or Zach is speeding up at Card, it doesn't really matter because it's going to be the same for me. So the ball's going to be on this side of the court, obviously. So to start, my paddle's already going to be here. Now, whether or not you pivot is kind of up to you. I usually don't when these firefights are going on. I'm usually just here, but I'm going to let them do their thing, and you're going to kind of see my positioning. So, the focal point here, you guys pay attention to me. They're going to be in a normal firefight. What you're going to see is when Card redirects that ball, I'm either going to be here or here. But either way, I'm engaged the whole time. I'm not while they're hitting the ball like this. This is how I get hit with So, exactly. Actually, that's a perfect example. So, honestly, I was here and I thought it was going to come to my forehand, but because I wasn't sitting here, I was able to easily go like that and make that ball. This is what makes you an effective offball player. So, Okay, so me being a better player should have taken that, but you can still see how from here it's a short motion to come to that next ball. So, like I said, on these redirects, I may not be on every one, but you'll notice I'm always in a good position to get that next ball. Boom. Again, that one I thought forehand, but it came backhand. Again, because I'm here, I'm kind of able to So, either way, right from here, I can Boom. So, again, this is how I become an effective offball player. This is also how your partner, you instill faith in them, right? If I'm here filling the middle well for Zach, he knows he can speed up a lot and trust that I have him. Right? If you're somebody that's just standing here like this, your partner is going to feel like they can't speed up or they have to do all the work themselves. An effective partnership is one where you can trust your partner to have your back there. Kind of firefight that players engage with. Now, this one's going to be more common the other direction is going to be backhand to backhand. So, you don't really see it this direction too much, but what you will see is a crosscourt firefight with you as the offball player. So, I'm going to hop to the other side of the court and do that now. Now, as a rightider, you are going to see this pattern. There's it comes a couple ways. One of the main ways is your partner or them or your opponent will flick a ball crosscourt. Now, when this happens, that firefight usually engages crosscourt. Now, a lot of players don't know what to do in this situation, right? Because the ball's crossing your face, but you're not really going to be able to poach it, right? So, what can I do to be an effective partner? Now, the biggest key is going to be a tool that I'm going to continue to talk about in upcoming videos called packing the middle. So, your partner's hitting backhands generally, right? Because if they were hitting a forehand, it's probably going to go that direction. So when they get in this firefight, what can I do? I can clean up middle. Now, if my partner hits the ball this direction and the ball goes that way, it's going to go out. So I don't need you covering this ball. I need you covering this space. So as I see this happen, I'm going to creep. So my paddle's pointed at my opponent again like we talked about, but I'm kind of creeping towards the middle of the court. That way, wherever this ball redirects, I can clean up cuz where is my partner vulnerable? They're vulnerable on this ball because they're hitting it like this. It's going to be hard for them to go here to here. They're gonna pretty much stay all backhand, which is actually what you want. So, you as the partner, righty or lefty, be ready in that middle. If I'm a righty, I'm here. And if I'm a lefty, I might You have two options as a lefty. You can kind of fade. I like actually the same thing though. Tanner's a specialist at this packing the middle with his backhand being here and here. Right? If you do that well, it becomes almost like a wall. It's a really cool pattern you'll see a lot with the top players is both players are backhand here and this forehand spot really isn't available because this player can take it. So, it's really just backhands all across the court. It's a really good pattern and it's one that will win you Bang. So, just like that, I am filling into the middle off of that ball. And whether card redirects that first ball or the second ball, I'm ready to clean it up. The only place I'm vulnerable is all the way over here on the line. And again, if he's redirecting that ball, it's probably going to go wide. So, that's a good pattern. Countered this one. Boom. Yeah. Well, that was Yeah, that was perfect. So, exactly like that. So, as this firefight engages, I'm just creeping towards the middle. And like you saw there, card actually kind of did go inside out, but it's still right here. It's going to be almost impossible for you to get beat over here and to keep the ball in. So, that's the pattern we really like. Richie recap time. So again, what we were talking about today is what we do during the firefight when we're the off ball player. I know it wasn't as much example. It was a little more explanation, but I promise getting your paddle position ready and your feet in the right spot are everything for this. Truly, when you do this right, these shots kind of just fall in your lap. When you do it wrong, you'll know you're doing it wrong cuz you're probably getting hit with the ball. If you're someone that's getting hit with these redirects, it's because you're not in the right place. So the two different ones we went over today were one when the firefight is up the line and you're the off ball player. When this is the case, whether we're on the right or the left, we're going to get our paddle pointed to the opponent that is in the firefight. And then when the ball redirects, we're going to be ready and nice and short. Now, what we're going to also look to do there is take again that half step to the middle, cutting off the angles. We always want to get beat on the firefight, redirect behind us. So, we don't want to be here reaching for the middle ball. We want to be here being here and body. Right? For me, I stay neutral. I point to that player and I try and go both ways. But depending on the kind of player you are, if you really like your forehand, you can probably go all forehand. And if you really like your backhand, you can sit backhand and just only go forehand if it's really far. So you actually have a lot of options on the left. On the right, we're going to be all backhand. And if you're a lefty, it's obviously the inverse. You're just going to go you have options. The second one that we talked about was when the firefight is crosscourt in front of our face. This is really only going to happen left to left, but it is a common left to left pattern. The ball is attacked cross and you are the offball player, usually on the right side of the court. Now, our job here, the biggest job is packing middle. When you see your partner attacking or getting attacked, you're going to creep to that middle. If you're a lefty, you can stay pretty neutral. If you're a righty, you're going to be heavy backhand, two and one. Now, what we're going to look for is again that ball to redirect to us and us to put it away in front of ourselves. If you step to the middle and our paddle is in a good ready position, we're not like this. You're going to be ready for that next ball. You're actually going to be picking like just easy points up this way. It's something that all the top teams are doing and you can do it in your game just by staying engaged, being in the right position, and getting our paddle up. That's really all this video is. I know it's a little bit of a long video explaining that, but I really just wanted to show you guys and you guys to understand. This is a huge part of the game. Honestly, it's like 50% of the game being the offball player. And yet, we never practice it or think about it. So, I want you guys to start thinking
