---
source: youtube
channel: Mari Humberg
video_id: xTgBWGCTa0k
title: The Mari Humberg Backhand Flick Guide (FINALLY)
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xTgBWGCTa0k
upload_date: 2026-05-15
duration: 00:08:42
fetched_date: 2026-05-23
---

# The Mari Humberg Backhand Flick Guide (FINALLY)

**Channel:** Mari Humberg
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xTgBWGCTa0k
**Duration:** 00:08:42
**Uploaded:** 2026-05-15

## Description

In this video, I finally give a full breakdown and explanation of my backhand flick! This is my most requested video. Hope you enjoy it!

## Chapters

- 00:00 Introduction
- 00:25 The Difference Between a Flick and a Roll
- 00:46 How Do I Hold the Paddle?
- 01:30 Flick Exercise at the Net
- 02:24 When to Hit the Flick and How to be Positioned
- 04:00 Recap of the First Half of the Video
- 04:29 Spots to Aim your Backhand Flick
- 04:59 Down the Line Demo of the Backhand Flick
- 05:49 Down the Middle Demo of the Backhand Flick
- 06:53 Cross Court Demo of the Backhand Flick
- 07:14 Short Angle Demo of the Backhand Flick
- 08:12 Closing

## Transcript

I've kept. [music] I'm going to give you the video that you've been asking for since I started playing pickleball. The shot that I'm most well known for, which is my backhand flick. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; The way that I hit this shot is pretty different than most people, but there are tidbits and things that you can take from my style of flick, incorporate it to your own. &gt;&gt; Before I start talking about my technique and how I hit the backhand flick, I want to make sure everyone understands the difference between a flick and a roll. A flick is using your wrist and kind of wrist in the shot over the net. And the roll is more of a a shoulder shot. So, there is a big difference between those two. Today, I'm going to be covering my backhand flick, not my backhand roll. With that, let's get started. First things first, how I hold the paddle, right? That's always the first question that I get from everyone. I can actually hit the flick with multiple different grips, but my preferred one, if I have time to adjust and be in perfectly good position, I'm holding pretty close to continental. Going to go ahead and hold it here. We can take a mental note of what I'm doing. So, I have been choking up on the paddle for the past few months now. This is not a requirement. I could hit the same flick holding all the way down at the paddle when I first started. So, I I recently changed that, but that doesn't really affect the shot, okay? So, pretty close to continental. I would even say that I can hit it between continental and eastern. That's usually the grip that I end up in at the kitchen line, okay? Second thing, I want to make sure we go all the way up to the net here. And this is an exercise that I give all my students when I'm teaching them the flick. The flick needs to be a low to high shot. It needs to create a windshield wiper. You know what your car does, okay? Windshield wiper, that's what generates top spin. So, we're going to put our paddle here against the net and we're going to flick it up. Notice that my paddle is barely over the net after I did that, right? I'm not going a ton of force forward. I'm not pushing that net with a ton of power. I'm just rotating up. The rotation up will also create power. But once again, the importance of attack is not necessarily pace, it's actually finesse and spin, as well as locations that you're targeting with your new opponents, okay? So, that's the movement that you have to keep in mind. We got the grip down. We've got the movement down. Now, I'm going to go behind the kitchen line, cuz that's the only place that we can hit it from, okay? First thing, you need to be well balanced. Just like any attack, I don't want us falling over and I don't want anyone commenting on this post saying that I do it all the time. Don't do what I do, do what I say. I'm very good at explaining it. I'm not necessarily the best at showing it, okay? I go for some crazy ones and I don't think you all should do that. But, it is possible because you're going so much low to high that the ball does go above the net. Now, my recommendations are if it's below your knee, don't go for it. I should listen to what I say. I really should, okay? But the best spot is to go anywhere between your knee and your hip. My hip is almost net height, so that's the height for me. If you're a little taller, that might be a little different for you different for you. If you're a little shorter, that might be a little different for you, as well. But we're looking to be well balanced with an open stance. You're not hitting this shot like this. Because if you do it like this, you're not going to be able to reestablish and be ready for the combo. So, you're hitting an open stance, but you're turning your shoulder. That's that unit turn that we've talked about in a few videos. You can't hit a backhand flick with an open chest, okay? This is going to be really hard. So, I want to make sure that we are turning so that we can generate that power with the wrist. And we're looking to make contact with the ball pretty far out in front of us. I don't have the same strength in my wrist if I make contact with the ball here than I if I do if I'm out here, okay? So, look, my elbow is pretty stretched out. I'm not forcing it, but it's not bent, either, okay? So, those are some of the keys. Once again, between continental and eastern, typically pretty close to continental if I have a choice. Athletic stance with an open stance with the ball pretty far out in front of you. Recommendation, if it's below the knee, don't go for it. I'm the worst, I'm going to go for it, okay? Even in these demos that I'm about to show you, I'm going to do it. And we're going to leave them there so you can see my mistakes, too. Now, before I show them, there's three main four main spots that you can go to with a backhand flick. From the left side, which is where I'm standing, you can go down the line towards that player's right hip. I can go down the middle towards the player in front of me's left shoulder or the player across from me's right shoulder. I can go full cross, which is right at my opponent's body, or I can go for the short angle cross court, which I'm just looking to push them completely off the court, and that's arguably the hardest one to execute. So, I'm going to show you all four of them. We're going to dink a few balls and then eventually, hopefully, she pops one up high enough that I can go for it, but I do want to show at least one successful one of each type. All right, Abby. Going to start. It's too good. I'm going to start with That was pretty good. No. Wow. How powerful is that shot? I just want I just want you to understand, it's not. I I hope you can see this on the camera. I'm not hitting that ball that hard, but I'm hitting in a spot that's super uncomfortable for my opponents, okay? It's more important to hit the right spot with the right spin than to add pace to this one. Perfect. So, I'll go middle next, okay? Same thing. Little high. That's okay. Ended up being Ooh. And this is a mistake that I see come I actually did the mistake there, okay? So, instead of maintaining my balance forward, I kind of pulled back, and that's why I missed the ball in the net. So, even I'm making mistakes on these, okay? These are very common Ooh, that was a good one. I'm out stretched, but still found the balance. As you can see in slow mo, sometimes my wrist will kind of bend behind my hand. That's not necessarily something that you need to do, but you do need to get under that ball and rotate in that windshield wiper fashion to create that top spin and make sure the ball stays in with your backhand flick. Right at her. Good counter. To the right hip there. Very good. And lastly, the most difficult one, super difficult finesse shot. That's tough. That was ambitious even for me. Pretty close. That would have been a clean winner. There it is. So, what happens in that shot, Abby would have hit that dink. It was a little high. She would have come back to the middle. Would have left that angle open for me, and I would have put the ball away. Those are the four types. Once again, hopefully, with the slow mo, you can see my motion. The way that I do a flick is pretty aggressive. As you can see, sometimes I do even pull the paddle all the way back here. I don't necessarily recommend that. You can start here and create the same pace, create the same spin. There are multiple people that hit this shot. Watch everyone's and take little tidbits of each one so that you can perfect your own backhand flick. Now that you've watched this video, I expect you to be an expert on the backhand flick. So, please tag me on any videos. Let me know if you have any questions, and I'm looking forward to seeing you all flicking out there. If you enjoyed this video, make sure to subscribe to my YouTube channel, Mary Humberg Pickleball [music] and Fortify Pickleball Clubs, as well as checking out my Instagram page. [music]
