---
source: youtube
channel: Universal Rackets
video_id: EWe4Df5dxwQ
title: Topspin vs Flat vs Slice When and How to Use Each Spin in Pickleball
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EWe4Df5dxwQ
upload_date: 2026-05-18
duration: 00:13:35
fetched_date: 2026-05-23
aliases:
  - "Topspin Flat Slice Spin"
tags:
  - slice
  - source
  - spin
  - topspin
  - universal-rackets

youtube_tags:
  - "Topspin vs Flat vs Slice — When to Use Each Shot in Pickleball"
  - "pickleball how to play"
  - "pickleball basics"
  - "pickleball for beginners"
  - "how to play pickleball"
  - "pickel ball tips"
  - "pickleball rules"
  - "pickleball drills"
  - "pickleball gameplay"
  - "learn pickleball"
  - "pickleball highlights"
  - "how to play pickleball for beginners"
  - "pickleball help"
  - "pickleball tips and tricks"
  - "pickleball drop shot"
  - "pickleball shots"
  - "padel vs pickleball"
  - "universal rackets"
  - "pickleball with tyler"
  - "pickleball game"
---

# Topspin vs Flat vs Slice When and How to Use Each Spin in Pickleball

**Channel:** Universal Rackets
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EWe4Df5dxwQ
**Duration:** 00:13:35
**Uploaded:** 2026-05-18

## Description

Topspin vs Flat vs Slice - When to Use Each Shot in Pickleball

## Chapters

_No chapter markers._

## Transcript

Topspin drive, slice drop, and flat speed up. Most players only know how to use one of these three shots. After you're done this video, you'll know how to use all three. Many players only use one spin and that's the spin that they're most comfortable with. It's like having one golf club in your golf bag. You need to use different spins for different shots. By understanding not only how, but when to use each spin separates the good players from the great. Now, I always recommend to use topspin when you want to be aggressive, but also when you want to keep the ball in the court. Topspin, in my opinion, is like having an insurance policy on your shot. A normal ball with no spin will go right through the court and it'll probably go out. Topspin allows you to hit the same ball at the same speed, but it's going to dive into the court. By hitting topspin on your shots, it's going to make the ball spin downwards. Now, in order to hit topspin, you have to think that you're brushing the ball low to think 12:00 up here, 6:00 down here. You're going from 6:00 to 12:00. You're also tilting your paddle downward. By tilting your paddle downward and swing low to high, you're going to brush the back of the ball and you're going to make it spin downward. You want to use this topspin shot always for your drives. The reason why you always want to hit your drives for topspin, again, is because it will keep your shots in, but also it'll make the ball go downward. It'll make your opponents have a lower contact point. If you can make your opponents, when they're up at the kitchen, when you're hitting your thirds, hit the ball from down here instead of up here, you're going to make them hit defensive shots and you're going to give yourself many more opportunities. You always want to, again, hit topspins, in my opinion, for most of your serves and also most of your drives. If If more of an advanced player and after you master your slice and your regular drop, you can also kind of hit a top spin drive and drop together, which will be another aggressive shot. A top spin drive drop kind of looks like this. It's super advanced, but again, it's going to make the ball hit and get your opponent down here instead of making contact up here. When you hit top spin, the ball just doesn't come to your opponent. It hits the ground and it kicks up. It's going to force your opponent either to A, if they're hitting in the air, to hit the ball further down, or B, if they're letting the ball bounce, say if it's a serve, you're hitting a top spin serve or a return, what's going to happen with your shot is they're going to be hitting it higher than they normally would. Again, so if they are hitting it up at the kitchen with a volley, by using top spin, you're going to get them to hit the ball lower than they typically would. If they're hitting the ball from back at the baseline, you're going to hit the ball or make them hit the ball from higher than they typically would. The whole goal of the top spin shot is not only getting the ball in, having a higher percentage chance of getting the ball in, but also by disrupting your opponent's contact point. For the top spin forehand serve drive, you want to use your low to high motion in tilt the paddle downward. Also, you can do this for the one-handed backhand. If you want to hit top spin on your two-handed backhand shot, what I want you to think is I want you to think that you're using your top hand. By using your top hand, it's going to help you create that spin. Your top hand is what creates the spin for that two-handed backhand. You can also use top spin on your serve. And the reason why you want to use top spin on your serve is because the returner has to let the ball bounce. Top spin will allow you to hit the serve twice as high than you typically would with a flat serve. You can hit your top spin serve like this. Notice that serve, it bounced right on the baseline. My opponent would have to move back because they have to let the ball bounce. They're going to get jammed. And the next shot that they hit after their return is going to be way back in the transition instead of up the kitchen. By using top spin for your serve again, you're going to be able to make your opponent uncomfortable. And also, you're going to be able to push them back. Remember, the slower you hit the ball, the more you exaggerate the spin. Now, when you do this though, look, the slower I hit the ball, the more I exaggerate the spin, the more chance it has to go downward. But when I hit it, the most common misconception is that players slow down their shot. If you want to hit top spin on your shots, you have to swing twice as fast than you normally do. You can't slow down. You can't decelerate. You have to accelerate. Now, how does that make sense conceptually? It's very simple. Instead of going through the ball, remember, you're brushing the back of the ball. So, even though you're swinging twice as fast, the ball's still going to go slower because you're not hitting all of the ball. You're just getting less of the ball. So, remember again, hold the paddle loose, tilt the paddle down, swing twice as fast, commit with your shot, and you'll be able to hit top spin on your drives, on your returns, on your serves, and you'll be able to keep your opponent off balance, and you'll be able to disrupt their contact point while still having a very high percentage shot. Now, the one place that you want to maybe avoid, unless you're advanced player using top spin on your shots, is when the ball's super low. Again, in order to get top spin, you have to exaggerate your swing, and you have to swing low to high. If that ball's super low, it's going to be extremely difficult to lift the ball. You might want to try to hit more flat or hit slice so you can get under the ball. So again, any shot really you can add top spin to, but the only shot that you don't want to is when the ball's super low, it's going to be really difficult to hit. Now, I want you to watch the difference between the flat and the topspin drive. Look how low and through the court this flat drive goes. When I hit this flat drive, there's no margin for error. Yes, the ball gets there faster, but again, remember, it stays low and there's no margin. When I hit this topspin, now there's very high margin for error. The ball goes way higher over the net and it dips into the court. The topspin and the flat shot look very different. The flat shot is unforgiving. If you use it at the wrong time, you might have a higher likelihood of missing your shot. Now, when you hit a drive, I want you think the more of the ball and the more forward you swing, the more flatter your ball's going to go. The less of the ball and the more upward you swing, the more topspin you're going to hit. You can go in between. The more forward you swing again, the more flat the ball's going to go. The more upward you swing, the more spin that you're going to hit. Now, everyone thinks a flat ball is a ball that just travels like this. There's no such thing as an exact flat shot. The reason why you're swinging low to high still, even if I swing forward, I'm still swinging like this when I hit. There's going to be some spin on the ball. Just the reason or the real reason why they call it a flat shot is because there's not enough spin for it to make a dramatic effect. So again, remember, there's always going to be spin on your flat shot. Now, why do you want to use a flat shot? You want to use a flat shot when you want to be aggressive. When you want to take time away from your opponent. When you want to get the ball to travel there as fast as possible. If you're really feeling it, maybe using a flat drive might be your shot. Or when you're up in the point. Remember, it's not forgiving. Or switch it up with a flat serve. But the only times that I really like to hit a flat shot is when I hit my speed ups and when I hit my put away volleys. Again, I need to make sure that I use a shot when I have the highest likelihood of making the shot is why I use it for put away volleys or when I have a ball that's lower, but I want it to get to my opponent as fast as possible. So, I'm going to try to flatten out my speed ups to make my opponent react much faster. I'm also going to flatten out my put aways because I have a very high likelihood of getting the ball in and I'm coming down on top of the ball. Essentially, you want to use flat shots when you're feeling it, when you're up in the points, or when you want to be aggressive and get the ball to your opponent as fast as possible. Again, if you're just starting out if you're playing in a club league or recreationally, I would only use flat shots again when you're hitting the speed ups and when you're hitting the put away volleys. Any other time, add some spin and you will win. Hit topspin on your serves, on your returns, and on your drives. Now, what about the slice? Now, slice is the opposite of topspin. Topspin means the ball's spinning downward. Slice means the ball's spinning backward. Topspin means the ball is spinning forwards. Slice means the ball is swinging backwards. Instead of going low to high and tilting your paddle down, you're swinging high to low and you're getting under the ball. You're swinging downward instead of upward. You're swinging down on the ball instead of brushing up on the ball. Instead of closing your paddle face, you need to open your paddle face. You need to swing from 12 to 6 rather than 6 to 12. By coming down on the ball and opening your paddle face, you're going to be able to get the back of the ball, which is going to be what creates the backspin. If you swing to the left, the ball's going to curve to the right. If you swing to the right, the ball is going to curve to the left. You're going to use slice when you want to change pace and you're going to use slice when you want to keep the ball low. Instead of the ball kicking up over to your opponent, the ball's going to hit the ground and stay low. It's going to force your opponent to have to hit a very low contact that's coming away from them instead of to them. If you're playing at a beginner club level, many players they don't know how to return slice and you can win a lot of free points. If you're playing more advanced, you're going to want to use slice. I like to use slice on my drops because it gives me more margin. I also like to use slice on my serves and also my returns to just change up and keep my opponent out of rhythm and on their toes. When I slice, I'm swinging forward and again, a slice dies down. It's going to curve to the right cuz I'm swinging to the left or it's going to curve to the right cuz I'm swinging to the the left, right? Slice is going to look like that. Slice is again used when you want to keep the ball low and you want to throw your opponent off rhythm. What you don't want to use slice for is when you want to hit any type of pace whatsoever. You never want to use slice if you want to get that ball to your opponent fast. You never want to use slice when your opponent's up at the net. It's going to float the ball more and it's going to give them more time to hit the shot. The best times again to use a slice is when you are hitting your return, in my opinion, or when your opponent's back at the baseline or you're hitting a serve. Now, what I would recommend everyone to do is just try to play around with all the different shots. Remember, when you're swinging slice, you're swinging high to low. You're swinging downwards. You're opening your paddle face. When you're hitting top spin, you're swinging low to high. You're closing your paddle face and swinging upwards. And when you're hitting flat, you're swinging more forward. So guys, my phone overheated. The iPhone shut down. It's so hot out here, but if you can use all these spins at the right place at the right time and know how to hit all these spins and add variety to your game, you're going to be able to win many more pickleball points. Honestly, if you can add more top spin to all your shots, if you play with spin, you will win. You're going to have way more margin for error, and you're going to make more balls and be more consistent. If you can use slice to throw your opponent off balance or beat some local rec players because they don't know how to deal with it, you're again going to win more free points. And if you can use flat shots at the right time, you can use them with purpose. When you want to get the ball to your opponent real fast or be extremely aggressive, you're going to be able to play better pickleball. Again, it's just like having multiple golf clubs in your bag. It's just like being a pitcher and not only having a fastball now. Now you're hitting your you're throwing a changeup, you're throwing a slider, and you're throwing a curveball. The best place to learn all these spins is to drill them in a practice setting or use them in a game where it doesn't matter. When you play competitively and if you're just used to hitting flat shots, you're probably going to stick with flat shots because you're extremely comfortable with it. I want you after you're done watching this video, don't just watch it. Don't just like hopefully don't just subscribe. Go out and actually apply this into your pickleball game. Starting tomorrow, what other type of spin are you going to work on? You're going to phone your friend or you're going to go out and hit the courts with a ton of balls or you're going to hit against the wall and you're going to try to learn to master another spin. Go out, add some variety to your game. You're going to be able to keep your opponents off balance, be able to use your spins to your advantage, and again, you're going to be able to win more and play better pickleball. If you guys enjoyed this video, make sure to share to all your pickleball friends. Share everywhere you can to help support this channel. Make sure to click all the links in the descriptions below. We have this awesome newsletter going out every single week with tons of different tips and tricks, maybe some giveaways here and there. Have a good one. Happy hitting, guys. I hope my phone didn't overheat again, and I will see you guys
