---
source: youtube
channel: Pickleball Studio
video_id: FdFMP24Pgb4
title: PaddleTek Honeyfoam TKO-X 16mm First Impressions
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FdFMP24Pgb4
upload_date: 2026-05-15
duration: 00:08:15
fetched_date: 2026-05-23
---

# PaddleTek Honeyfoam TKO-X 16mm First Impressions

**Channel:** Pickleball Studio
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FdFMP24Pgb4
**Duration:** 00:08:15
**Uploaded:** 2026-05-15

## Description

This description contains affiliate links that give us a commission when you use them. You can use code PBSTUDIO to save 10%

## Chapters

_No chapter markers._

## Transcript

All right, what's up, guys? In today's video, we're going to be checking out the Paddletek Honey Foam 16 mm. A quick disclosure before we get into the video, Paddletek did send us this paddle for free, and we do make a commission if you use our link or discount code down in the description. But, with that out of the way, let's get back to the video. First, if you've been following any of the Yolo litigation with the Gen 3 design of paddles, Paddletek was named in there, and it was actually for this paddle. But, Yolo and Paddletek seem to have come to some resolution where they're going to be paying royalties on the paddle, and then they have to stop selling this paddle come fall. So, do just know that if you're interested in this, and you do end up liking it, you may want to buy multiple now because I don't know that it's going to exist later this year. The next thing worth mentioning is that if you already own the Paddletek Reserve, then you don't need to go out and buy this because to my knowledge, they are identical paddles. It seemed like the idea of the Paddletek Reserve was kind of like a Selkirk Labs thing, "Hey, get it early, and then there'll be another mass launch version." But, instead of actually making any changes, it seems like they've just left it the same, and then released it to the mass public, and it's no longer a limited edition. So, if you already own a Reserve, then don't worry about going out and buying the Honeycomb. And then, the last thing I want to mention is that there is a 16 mm and a 14 mm. We don't currently have the 14 mm, but the 14 mm is only USAPA certified. So, if you are someone that likes 14 mm paddles, just know that it didn't pass USAPA testing, and to my knowledge, it is not going to become USAPA certified. And then, the 16 mm on the other hand is USAPA and USAPA certified. But, anyways, with those quick facts out of the way, if you want to see the specs, those will be on screen now. But, the main thing you probably need to know is that at the time of recording this video, it only comes in an elongated shape, and it has a swing weight of roughly 118. The design of the paddle is an EPP foam core center, and then it's the horseshoe EVA ring around the edges, similar to Yolo's Gen 3. But, the band is very, very narrow compared to a lot of the foam paddles that we've seen on the market. Just like other Paddletek paddles, this also does come with a limited lifetime warranty. And the last two things I'll mention is that this does have a 5.75 in handle. So, for those of you that use a two-handed backhand and don't want to put your finger on the back, this handle is plenty long enough to do that. And then finally, the grip size is 4.25 in. So, for a lot of the women out there, if you do prefer a smaller, less blocky grip, do just know that the Honey Foam probably isn't going to be ideal. It is a little bit bigger and it is a little bit blocky. Personally, not my favorite feeling handle in the world, but that's purely personal preference. All right, so now as far as the performance goes, when I first tried the Paddletek Reserve, I honestly wasn't that impressed. It was kind of like, okay, this is a soft and dense feeling paddle that doesn't hit overly hard and it's $250 without a longer-lasting texture. So, to me, that was pretty underwhelming. But now playing with the Honey Foam, I do think that I've changed my mind just slightly. While I do think that at $250 without a longer-lasting texture, it is overpriced, I do think this paddle actually has a place in the market. First of all, there just aren't a lot of soft and dense paddles that lean towards the power category. I do think this paddle is probably more in the low-tier power category and overall, it's very easy to use and I like the feedback of it. Things are more dampened, it's more muted, and for soft shots like drops, dinks, and resets, it's not overly poppy. So, it doesn't feel like it's very hard to manipulate the ball I want or place it how I want. So, I think in a sea of paddles that are all basically stiff and hollow right now, that does make the Paddletek stand out more than I thought it did originally. I do think it actually has a pretty unique power and pop profile where when you really lay into the ball, I feel like you do get a good amount of power. But then if you're not swinging very hard, it does feel like it's pretty easy to control. Whereas I feel like a lot of the power paddles right now, it's basically always on or always off. There aren't a lot of paddles that feel kind of dynamic in this way. The only other one recently that I've played that kind of felt like that was the Thrive Ignite. So, for people looking at a lower tier power paddle that's on the soft and dense side and isn't overly poppy and you like to swing a little bit more, I actually think the Honeycomb might be pretty appealing. For those of you that have been listening to the podcast a lot recently, you know that I've been playing some of my tournaments with a Vatic Pro Prism and I've actually really come to appreciate some of these soft and dense paddles and I feel like the Honeycomb is basically just making a more modern version of that where you actually have some pop and power and you're not sacrificing all of it, but you have that soft and dense feel, which I feel like can be really appealing to a lot of players. Now, as far as sweet spot goes, I would say for an elongated paddle, it's about average, maybe maybe dipping just slightly below average. I did find that towards the edges there were just times where I was like, "Ah, I didn't really love how that felt." But, it is also an elongated and I usually play a wide body, so some of that could be my own adjustment, but I didn't find that the sweet spot was the most stand-out thing in the world. I'm sure if you just added a little bit of weight at the bottom corners, it would probably tune that up pretty nicely. But, it is certainly a massive upgrade from the old Bantams. For those of you who played with the old Bantams, you know that the sweet spot, especially near the top of the paddle, was terrible. So, if we're comparing it to that, then the Honeycomb is a pretty big upgrade. Now, there is one paddle that I do think is going to make the Honeycomb a tougher sell, even though I believe they are slightly different, and that would be the Friday Aura. Now, I do think that paddle is more of an all-court paddle and it doesn't quite have the pop that the Honeycomb does. However, if you're comparing the price, the Aura is literally half the price and plays in a very similar realm. It's in that soft and dense, it's more muted, it feels like it absorbs pace really well, but it's just not quite as poppy as the Honeycomb. Now, I would like to spend some more time hitting them side by side to pick up some of the differences, but right now I think that the Aura is probably all court and the Honeycomb is more in that lower tier power. So, if you're considering both and you don't necessarily need that extra power, then the Aura might be more appealing just on price alone. Especially since the Honeycomb isn't offering anything like a longer-lasting texture right now. So, to me, that is probably the biggest battle that makes it harder to immediately recommend the Honeycomb. I think when you're comparing the price of both, it's just a tough sell at $250. So, to wrap this up, I think the Honeycomb is good for people that want a good amount of control without sacrificing all of the power. And especially if you're someone who likes more soft and dense paddles, which kind of feels like a slightly underserved part of the market right now with all of the power paddles leaning stiff and hollow. And if you're someone that wants a paddle that's a little bit more dynamic where when you put something into it, you get a little bit more out, but if you're swinging small, you don't get a lot out of it, then I think the Honeycomb does that pretty well. And if you're coming from a Bantam and you like Paddletek paddles, then I think this is a very solid and welcome upgrade. And then again, if you are someone that wants a longer handle for two-handed backhands without having to put your finger on the back, I think the Honeycomb does that really well. Now, as far as the downsides, again, the paddle likely isn't going to be available after the fall. So, if you do end up really enjoying the paddle, you're either going to have to stock up on multiple now or you're just going to have to accept that you're going to have to switch to something else in the future. There's no long-lasting texture, which in 2026 and for $250, I think that a really tough sell. Especially when you consider that the 14 mm is UPAA only certified. And then again, with the Friday Aura, I do just think it has stiff competition when it there is something at such a lower price, but if you're someone that really wants that little bit of extra pop and power, then I guess your only option would be the Honeycomb. So, at the end of the day, the Honeycomb really doesn't do anything that is that exciting. I think a lot of people will actually probably find this paddle underwhelming, but I think it's better than most people would probably give it credit for. And I think the soft and dense feel is really appealing and it has a very healthy amount of pop and power that blends in with good control. So, yes, it's overpriced and it doesn't have a longer-lasting texture, but if those things don't bother you and you wanted to upgrade from your Bantam, I do think this is a pretty solid option. But, if you're not dead set on a Paddle Tek paddle or a soft and dense feel, then I do think there are a lot of other options out there that you could probably consider. So, anyways, thanks for watching and I'll catch you guys in
