---
source: youtube
channel: Pickleball Studio
video_id: O3ND_AVkP0s
title: How To Choose A Pickleball Paddle In 2026 (The Only Guide You Need)
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O3ND_AVkP0s
upload_date: 2026-05-18
duration: 00:17:02
fetched_date: 2026-05-23
---

# How To Choose A Pickleball Paddle In 2026 (The Only Guide You Need)

**Channel:** Pickleball Studio
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O3ND_AVkP0s
**Duration:** 00:17:02
**Uploaded:** 2026-05-18

## Description

Links to extra resources related to this video: Our paddle database: https://pickleballstudio.com/paddles

## Chapters

_No chapter markers._

## Transcript

There are literally hundreds of paddles on the market right now, and most of them are actually really good. The problem isn't finding a good paddle anymore, it's finding the right one for you. I've spent the last 4 years reviewing paddles, and I've play tested well over 500 of them. And today, I'm going to show you my framework of 12 questions that if you answer these, it will significantly reduce the number of paddles you should consider on the market. There are a lot of things to consider when buying a paddle, and I'm going to separate everything into primary categories and secondary categories. Primary categories are the things that are generally the most important when buying a paddle, and secondary categories are things you might prefer to have, but you would get over if the primary categories are taken care of. Most of the time, choosing a paddle is a set of pros and cons. So, the goal is to maximize the pros and minimize the cons. Buying a paddle is kind of like buying a car. One isn't better than another, it just depends on what you want and need. If you have four kids, a minivan is a much more practical option for you than a sedan. And if you have a lot of stuff you wanted to tow around with you, a truck is probably a better option than a sports car. Paddles can be very similar. You need to know what's important to you and make your decision based on that. So, let's dive into the five primary categories. The first one is which shape should you buy? There are three shapes in pickleball: elongated, hybrid, [snorts] and wide body. Elongated paddles offer the most reach and fit people coming from tennis really well. These tend to have longer handles for two-handed backhands. They are also often the heaviest type of shape you could pick. So, if hand speed is the biggest priority, you might have less options in the elongated category that fit you. Next is the wide body. This is the shortest shape you can buy. So, at the kitchen line, you might notice you can't take balls out of there as easy. But, it also gives you the largest sweet spot and the most maneuverability at the net. Finally, we have the hybrid. As the name implies, it's a hybrid between a wide body and an elongated. This is designed to give you some of the length that an elongated has, but not have as small of a sweet spot, while also giving you more maneuverability than an elongated. Some people love the in-between aspects, and other people would rather have an elongated or a wide body. Personally, my two favorite shapes are the wide body and the hybrid. Back in the day, there used to be a bigger gap in power levels between the various shapes, but now they're honestly all very similar. And which shape you should choose comes down to which aspects you want to prioritize in your game, or whichever shape you're the most comfortable with. Almost every time a new paddle line comes out, people say, "Should I buy it in a wide body, an elongated, or a hybrid?" And the easy answer is, you should buy it in the shape that is most similar to what you currently already have, unless you're looking to try something new for fun. Now, the second one is swing weight. Swing weight is a number that can help you understand how easy or hard a paddle is to actually swing. It doesn't matter how good a paddle is if it's too heavy for you to play an entire session with. People often use static weight to determine if a paddle is light or heavy, but static weight actually isn't that useful in pickleball. You could have a 7.7 oz paddle that feels heavier to swing than one that is 8.3 oz, depending on how that weight is distributed in the paddle. If more of the weight is in the head, it'll feel harder to swing than if most of the weight was in the handle. And this is what swing weight tries to tell you. The simple breakdown is this: Swing weights of pickleball paddles range roughly from 90 up to about 130. Paddles with a lower number are easier to maneuver, and paddles with a higher number are slower in the hand. So, if you find that you're very sensitive to heavy paddles, you would want a paddle with a lower swing weight number, something under 112. If you're a former tennis player, you might actually want something with a higher swing weight around 118 and above, because it will swing closer to your tennis racket and have more plow through. These days, most paddle companies publish the swing weights of their paddles on their website for you to see. But, if you can't find one, you can check out our paddle database in the description, which has swing weights of many of the popular paddles on the market for you to look at and compare. Third, we have the power level of your paddle. Paddles are often most categorized as control, all court, and power paddles. Every player is different in what they want from their paddle. Sometimes newer players struggle with popping the ball up on soft shots, and a control paddle or all court paddle can help them control the paddle better without having to baby the ball so much. It gives you more margin to swing through the ball without making a mistake. But, on the flip side, some players have great touch and want to be able to end points faster with more power on drives and counters. There's no right or wrong answer here. You just need to know which aspect is more important for you. If you find that you consistently pop up your resets and dinks, and that's why you're losing games, you might want a control or all court paddle to help you out. Whereas, on the flip side, if you love to drive and counter and aren't dinking much, then a power paddle might be what you want. If you don't know what you want or prefer yet, then I would just start with an all court paddle. It's a very safe place for most people to start. Fourth, we've got how the paddle feels when you hit the ball. There are a lot of ways to describe a paddle, but one method has become very common since John Q introduced it. This is a chart for how a paddle can usually feel when you hit the ball. On the horizontal access, we have dense and hollow. On the vertical access, we have soft at the bottom and stiff at the top. Soft and dense paddles tend to feel like they absorb pace very well. It's often associated with paddles that are easier to control. The ball doesn't pop off the face very fast, and they are usually more quiet. So, it gives the feeling that you have more control. Paddles that fall into this category would be something like the Volair Mach 2 Forza, 6-0 Coral, and Vatic Pro Prism. Stiff and hollow paddles often feel very poppy, you get a lot of feedback, they're loud, and they just feel very aggressive. The ball doesn't want to sit on the face very long. Paddles that are currently popular and fall into this category would be the Yooola Pro 4, Selkirk Boomstick, and the Bread &amp; Butter Loco, just to name a few examples. There are paddles that do occupy the soft and hollow quadrant as well as the dense and stiff, but they're honestly a lot less common than soft and dense and stiff and hollow. Paddles can fall anywhere within this spectrum, and it's just a way that reviewers can help communicate to you how a paddle might feel when you hit a ball. How a paddle feels can really impact whether someone likes a paddle or not. The best way to find out what you like is to try as many paddles as you can at a pro shop or your friends' paddles and see which ones feel the best to you. Then from there, you can watch reviews on those paddles to learn how people frequently describe it, and this can give you a better baseline of what all these words mean: stiff and hollow, dense and soft, and so on. There's no right or wrong answer, but knowing your preference for these types of feelings could help you narrow down what type of paddle you're looking for. If a paddle checks every box for you, but you hate how it feels every time you hit it, you probably aren't going to use it for very long. Again, if you're brand new to picking a paddle and you haven't bought anything yet, I really wouldn't stress about the feel of your paddle too much. I would just buy a highly recommended paddle and then learn your preferences as you play the game more. Paddle feel is really going to be for people who have had multiple paddles, and they kind of have an idea of what they want. For number five, we have durability. Of course, everyone wants a more durable paddle, but I found throughout my time reviewing paddles, people will take a less durable paddle if it means that they get enough performance out of it. There are two dominant types of paddles on the market right now that are commonly referred to as Gen 3 and Gen 4 paddles. Gen 4 paddles have cores that are entirely made of foam, while Gen 3 paddles are polymer plastic cores as the center with foam around the edges. Gen 3 paddles would be ones like the Yola Pro 5 and Gen 4 would be something like the Selkirk Boomstick. Some players prefer Gen 3 paddles because it gives them a very connected feel to the ball and that feeling is something that is very valuable to some players. The problem is Gen 3 paddles are known to core crush. This is when the core actually breaks and starts acting more like a trampoline which allows the paddle to hit harder than intended and is technically illegal to play with. Some players love how these paddles play so much that they don't mind warranting or swapping them out when they core crush. While other players are tired of consistently swapping broken paddles and have started migrating toward full foam paddles which don't have core crushing issues since there's no plastic in the core to crush. The reason some players haven't migrated entirely to foam cores is that they find some models are too dampened in the feedback that they provide and it's harder for them to feel the ball and manipulate their shots the way they want to. So Gen 3 and Gen 4 comes down to a feel preference. Many high-level players are very used to how a Gen 3 paddle feels and that's what they're comfortable using. Some people find the performance is a worthy trade-off for the durability. While some people who just want their paddles to last won't use a Gen 3 paddle anymore. If currently you have no preference, I would probably steer you more towards a foam core paddle. Now we've made it to what I would consider the secondary priorities for most people. These aren't secondary because they aren't important. They're secondary because I find people will often overlook some of these aspects if the primary categories are taken care of. But just know that everyone's different. What is a primary category for me might be a secondary category for you. The first one is your budget. Good paddles usually range between 90 to $333. Many of the $100 paddles are just as competitive as the ones that are 200 and plus. And honestly, anyone from 300 to pro could easily play with some of the best $100 paddles. Paddles from brands like 11 624, Rhombus, Vatic Pro, Friday, Enhance, and Luz are all very very competitive paddles for $100 or less. Hang more often comes down to a specific paddle having everything you want from swing weight, shape, feel, power level, and so on. Anyone who tells you that some of the $100 paddles aren't competitive with things above 200 is literally just lying to you. Whether you want a control paddle all the way up to the highest levels of power, you can find that in a $100 paddle. You do not need to spend a lot of money to get a good paddle. There's nothing wrong with spending more money if you find what you're looking for, though. In fact, there are paddles I would happily pay over $200 for, but the reality is I could play just as good of pickleball with one that is $100 or less. In the current state of the market, price is not what is holding someone back from having a good paddle. So, set your budget and that will also help you narrow down a lot of options. Spin is a very important aspect to a lot of players, and sometimes people wonder why doesn't spin get talked about more from paddle to paddle. And the truth is most paddles get very similar spin. There are limits in place with the various governing bodies that dictate how much spin a paddle should be able to put on the ball. A lot of times the problem is that isn't actually governed very well, so you'll find some paddles are grittier than others, but honestly, even with that, most paddles get very similar spin. If you're buying a good paddle, chances are it's going to get great spin. Yes, there are a handful here or there that stand out more than a couple others, but as long as you're buying a reputable paddle, it's probably going to get good spin. And that's why you don't hear it talked about more as a bigger category. Next, we have sweet spot. The truth is sweet spots across the board have gotten so good that most of the time you don't have to worry about a paddle having a bad sweet spot. Yes, there are some paddles that do have a better sweet spot than another, but these days they're a lot more similar than they used to be. So, as long as you watch some reviews and don't find people consistently saying that a paddle has a bad sweet spot, more than likely you'll end up with one that is good enough. In 2026, I find that it's more uncommon to find a paddle with a bad sweet spot, and almost everything that comes through my door has a more than adequate sweet spot. And it's not nearly as big of a talking point in paddles as it used to be. So, to me sweet spot is in the secondary category because it's good enough on the vast majority of paddles, and the paddles with a bad sweet spot are usually pretty easy to learn about in a review. Now, we have paddle thickness. This is how thick the core of your paddle is. These can range from 10 mm all the way up to 20 mm. However, the most common thicknesses you're going to see are 16 mm and 14 mm. For most people, 16 mm is usually going to be the best option. It is significantly more popular than the 14 mm variants in the market. 14 mm paddles are usually quicker in the hand, but they have smaller sweet spots. In the past, 16 mm and 14 mm models were more associated with control and power. But with how different paddles are made now, the gap between 16 mm and 14 mm is much more narrow. So, it's not as cut and dry as pick 16 mm if you want control and pick 14 mm if you want power. Generally speaking though, if you don't already have a preference for a specific thickness, I would recommend that you just start with a 16 mm paddle. Thinner paddles are usually going to be more difficult to use and often require added weight to reach their full performance. Next, we have handle length. This is how long the handle of your paddle is. If you come from tennis, you might want a minimum of a 5.5 in handle to use a two-handed backhand. But if you come from table tennis and like to choke up on the paddle, then 5.25 in or less may be sufficient for you, especially if you only use one hand for all your shots. This is purely personal preference, and there is no right or wrong answer. Just find what feels comfortable for you and choose the handle size based on that. If you don't currently have a preference, anything between 5.25 in all the way up to 5.5 in is a very safe range. Then we have the grip size, which is how thick the grip of your paddle is. Most paddles range from 4 and 1/8 up to 4 and 1/4. If you have smaller hands, a 4 and 1/8 in grip is what you want. But if you have large hands, then you may prefer 4 and 1/4. This again is purely personal preference, no right or wrong answer. Personally, I prefer a grip that is 4 and 1/8 because when I put an overgrip on it, it's the perfect size for me and when I do that on a 4 and 1/4 grip, it's just a little too chunky for what I prefer to use. Now, the final thing we're going to talk about would be certification standards. I didn't put this last because it is the least important, but it just depends so much on if you only play rec, if you play tournaments, and what type of tournaments do you play. For 99.99% of you watching this video, if you buy a paddle that is USAPA certified, that is all you need. This is the certification standard that the majority of the sport has been using and does accept. But there are multiple certification standards you may want to be aware of if you are a competitive player who plays tournaments. There's USAPA, UPAA, and dual certified. UPAA governs the pro game, but more and more paddles are becoming UPAA only approved because it allows the company to create grittier paddles than what is USAPA approved. Some tournaments don't allow UPAA certified paddles and the PPA tour sometimes doesn't let people use USAPA certified paddles depending on the division that you're playing. But just know this, if you're an amateur and you buy a USAPA certified paddle, you're going to be fine in the vast majority of places that you play and you really won't have to worry about it. If you want to know even more about this, you can check our video that's down in the description. All right, now that you know the 11 things that go into choosing a paddle that fits you, I suggest using those categories in this video and answering what your preference is for each of them and then only shopping for paddles that fit that criteria. Everyone is different. Some people don't care what shape they use, but the grip size might be extremely important. Learn what those are for you and only buy paddles that match your most important criteria. By doing this, it will eliminate so many paddles from the market and you won't have to worry so much about all the hype and noise that all these different paddles are generating. As an example, I'll tell you what the most important things are for me. Swing weight, power level, shape, and durability. Almost everything else in this list, I can get over if these things are taken care of. There might be things I wish were different, like I do prefer a thinner grip size and a longer handle, but if the rest of the paddle is good enough, I can usually get over those things. And after helping thousands of people choose a paddle for them, I find that it can be very similar for other people. There are almost always things that they don't really care about and a set of high priorities that are non-negotiables. If you want help narrowing down paddle options based on the things talked about in this video, you can check out my paddle database on my website. It allows you to filter for many of the things I've talked about in this video from swing weight, price, power level, generation type, and more. It can help you narrow down which ones you might want to consider instead of looking at the entire market of hyped paddles and thinking you need to try all of them. I'll leave a link down in the description if you want to check that out. And just remember this, just because a new paddle comes out almost every week does not mean that the paddle you have now is obsolete or that you need to replace it. Paddles are constantly launching and can cause a lot of FOMO, but most of the time it's not going to be so much better that you actually need to get rid of the one you just bought. Anyways, I'll catch you
